---
title: "English is my second language"
date: 2023-02-19T16:30:22+0100
image : "images/english.png"
images: ["images/english.png"]
# author
author : ["raffaella"]
# categories
categories: ["Personal Productivity"]
tags: ["communication"]
# meta description
description: "Here the tools and strategies that help me communicate better in English, as a non-native English speaker"
summary: "Here the tools and strategies that help me communicate better in English, as a non-native English speaker"
# save as draft
draft: false
---
Over the years I have become better at it, but I definitely cannot say that I am as confident in English as I am in Italian (not sure I'll ever be...), and I am always on the lookout for 'tools' (in the broadest sense) that can help me.

This is what has been working best, so far, for me:

# [Deepl](https://www.deepl.com/translator)

It is way, waaaaaaaay better than Google Translate. I use it when I want to **double check** that what I wrote in English matches what I wanted to say in Italian, and when there's a **sentence** in English that I cannot understand.

# [Reverso Context](https://context.reverso.net/traduzione/)

The translator shows you how words are used in real-life contexts, and it covers a wide range of registers of speech. I use it to check if the word I have in mind is the **right one** for what I want to say, and when I don't know how a **word** translates into English.

# Netflix, Prime Video...whatever

TV series and movies in original language, and English subtitles on. I do it to get used to how words are being **pronounced** (...here I wrote "pronunciated" 🙃, it was highlighted as a mistake, I went to Reverso Context to check how to write it right...), and to pick up some **new terms and idioms**.

# Podcasts

I recently started listening to Podcasts for the same reason as above. Sadly, I cannot do anything else while listening, as I would do if the Podcast was in Italian 🙄, but it is worth it. Nowadays I am listening to [Change by Attraction](https://changebyattraction.simplecast.com/), by Esther Derby.

# Working in an international context

Last but not least, the best 'tool' has been having the **opportunity to work with colleagues from across the world**.

**Other non-native English speakers** gave me the courage, years ago, to move from a "oh gosh I am not good enough at this" state of mind to a more resourceful "it's not perfect, but **I can make myself understood!**" approach to communication.

**The native English speakers** supported my efforts by **never laughing at me** for my mistakes and my Italian accent, by speaking slower than they could, and by also making use of amazing idioms that enriched my vocabulary.

_I hope this can be of help to other non native English speakers - would you add anything else to the list? Is there something, a tool, a strategy, that has been working well for you?_

---
Photo by [Belinda Fewings](https://unsplash.com/@bel2000a) on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/6wAGwpsXHE0?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)